.\" Manpage for storageshower.
.\" Contact https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/storageshower to correct errors or omissions.
.TH STORAGESHOWER 1 "2026-05-31" "storageshower 0.28.7" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
storageshower \- cyberpunk disk usage TUI (ratatui + sysinfo, drill-down + theme editor)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B storageshower
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B storageshower
is a real-time disk-usage TUI written in Rust. It enumerates mounted disks
via
.BR sysinfo (5),
renders a colored bar per disk in a
.BR ratatui (3rs)
terminal UI, and supports drill-down per directory, live filtering, color
themes (built-in + user-editable), and configurable warning / critical
thresholds.
.PP
The UI updates at the
.B --refresh
interval (default 1 second) until you press
.BR q .
All CLI flags have a matching
.B --no-flag
inverse so a runtime config in
.RB \(aq "~/.storageshower.conf" \(aq
can be overridden per-invocation.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS SORTING
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-sort " " \fIMODE\fR
Sort disk entries.
.I MODE
is one of
.BR name ,
.BR pct ,
or
.BR size
(default
.BR size ).
.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-reverse
Reverse the sort order.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-local-only
Show only local disks (HDD / SSD), hiding network mounts.
.TP
.B \-\-no-virtual
Hide virtual filesystems (tmpfs, devfs, devtmpfs, proc, sysfs, etc.).

.SS DISPLAY
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-bar-style " " \fISTYLE\fR
Bar visualization style:
.BR gradient ,
.BR solid ,
.BR thin ,
or
.BR ascii .
.TP
.B \-\-color " " \fIPALETTE\fR
Color palette name (default, green, blue, purple, ...). See
.B \-\-list-colors
for the full set.
.TP
.B \-\-list-colors
Print every built-in color scheme and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-export-theme
Print the current palette as TOML and exit. Useful for saving + editing.
.TP
.B \-\-theme " " \fINAME\fR
Activate a user-defined theme by name (loaded from the config file).
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-units " " \fIMODE\fR
Unit display:
.BR human ,
.BR gib ,
.BR mib ,
or
.BR bytes .
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-compact
Compact mount names (trim long paths).
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-full-mount
Show full mount paths (overrides
.BR \-\-compact ).
.TP
.B \-\-no-bars
Hide the usage bars (text-only display).
.TP
.B \-\-no-border
Hide border chrome.
.TP
.B \-\-no-header
Hide column headers.
.TP
.B \-\-no-used
Hide the used/total size display.

.SS THRESHOLDS
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-warn " " \fIPCT\fR
Warning threshold in percent (default 70).
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-crit " " \fIPCT\fR
Critical threshold in percent (default 90). Mounts at or above this level
also bell the terminal once.

.SS COLUMNS
.TP
.B \-\-col-mount " " \fIWIDTH\fR
Mount column width (0 = auto).
.TP
.B \-\-col-bar-end " " \fIWIDTH\fR
Bar-end column width (0 = auto).
.TP
.B \-\-col-pct " " \fIWIDTH\fR
Percentage column width (0 = auto).

.SS SYSTEM
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-refresh " " \fISECS\fR
Data refresh interval in seconds (default 1).
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIPATH\fR
Alternate config file path (default
.RB \(aq "~/.storageshower.conf" \(aq).
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show built-in help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Show version and exit.

.SH KEYBINDS
While the TUI is running:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
\fBq\fR, \fBEsc\fR \(em quit
.IP \(bu 2
\fBj\fR / \fBk\fR \(em scroll the list
.IP \(bu 2
\fBs\fR \(em cycle sort mode
.IP \(bu 2
\fBr\fR \(em reverse sort
.IP \(bu 2
\fBb\fR \(em cycle bar style
.IP \(bu 2
\fBc\fR \(em cycle color palette
.IP \(bu 2
\fBu\fR \(em toggle used/total display
.IP \(bu 2
\fBa\fR \(em toggle all/local mount view
.IP \(bu 2
\fBm\fR \(em toggle compact / full mount paths
.IP \(bu 2
\fB/\fR \(em enter filter prompt (Ctrl+W deletes word, Ctrl+H backspaces)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBp\fR \(em pause auto-refresh
.IP \(bu 2
\fB?\fR \(em open the help overlay
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
Purple palette with ASCII bars:
.PP
.RS 4
.B storageshower --color purple -b ascii
.RE
.PP
Sort by usage %, reversed:
.PP
.RS 4
.B storageshower -s pct -R
.RE
.PP
Local physical disks only, hide virtual:
.PP
.RS 4
.B storageshower -l --no-virtual
.RE
.PP
GiB units with stricter thresholds:
.PP
.RS 4
.B storageshower -u gib -w 60 -C 85
.RE
.PP
Use an alternate config:
.PP
.RS 4
.B storageshower --config /tmp/ss.conf
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
.RB \(aq ~/.storageshower.conf \(aq
Default config file (TOML). All CLI flags have matching keys; CLI overrides.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B storageshower
exits 0 on a clean quit (\fBq\fR / \fBEsc\fR), 1 on argument-parse errors,
and 2 if the TTY can't be put into raw mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR storageshowerall (1),
.BR ncdu (1),
.BR du (1),
.BR df (1),
.BR sysinfo (5),
.BR iftoprs (1),
.BR lsofrs (1)

.SH AUTHOR
MenkeTechnologies <https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies>

.SH BUGS
Report at
.RB \(aq https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/storageshower/issues \(aq.
