.\" storageshowerall(1) — comprehensive all-in-one man page for storageshower
.\" Modeled after zshall(1): every reference section in one document.
.\" Render with:  man -l man/man1/storageshowerall.1
.\" Install:      cp man/man1/storageshowerall.1 /usr/local/share/man/man1/
.TH STORAGESHOWERALL 1 "2026-06-05" "storageshower 0.28.7" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
storageshowerall \- the storageshower comprehensive reference (invocation,
TUI keybinds, color themes, drill-down, configuration file, alerts)
.SH OVERVIEW
This is the all-in-one
.B storageshower
manual, modeled on
.BR zshall (1).
It concatenates the major sections of the storageshower reference into a
single page so you can grep with `/`:
.RS 2
.PP
.B 1.  INVOCATION
.RB "\(em " "CLI flags, override precedence, config file path"
.br
.B 2.  TUI LAYOUT
.RB "\(em " "header, disk rows, bars, status line, overlays"
.br
.B 3.  KEYBINDS
.RB "\(em " "navigation, sort, filter, drill-down, theme editor, help"
.br
.B 4.  CONFIG FILE
.RB "\(em " "~/.storageshower.conf TOML schema"
.br
.B 5.  COLOR THEMES
.RB "\(em " "built-in palettes, custom themes, --export-theme workflow"
.br
.B 6.  DRILL-DOWN
.RB "\(em " "per-directory scan, async progress, copy-path, sort modes"
.br
.B 7.  ALERTS
.RB "\(em " "warn/crit thresholds, terminal bell, status line message"
.br
.B 8.  FILES & ENV
.RB "\(em " "config path, env overrides"
.br
.B 9.  EXIT CODES & EXAMPLES
.br
.B 10. SEE ALSO
.RE

.SH 1. INVOCATION
See
.BR storageshower (1)
for the per-flag table. All CLI options have a matching key in the
config file (long-name → snake_case); CLI flags override the file.

.SH 2. TUI LAYOUT
.B storageshower
renders three regions, top to bottom:
.RS 2
.IP \(bu 2
.B Header
\(em ASCII banner, version, current mode, refresh interval.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Disk rows
\(em one row per mount: name (truncated to col width), bar (style configurable),
used/total (units configurable), and color-coded percent.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Status line
\(em filter prompt, last alert, paused indicator, sort indicator.
.RE
.PP
The help overlay (\fB?\fR) and theme-editor overlay (\fBC\fR) modal-cover
the disk rows while open.

.SH 3. KEYBINDS
.SS Navigation
.TP
\fBj\fR / \fBk\fR / \fB\(da\fR / \fB\(ua\fR
Scroll the disk list one row.
.TP
\fBPgDn\fR / \fBPgUp\fR / \fBSpace\fR
Page-scroll.
.TP
\fBHome\fR / \fBEnd\fR / \fBg\fR / \fBG\fR
First / last row.

.SS Sort + filter
.TP
\fBs\fR
Cycle sort mode (name → pct → size → name …).
.TP
\fBr\fR
Reverse current sort.
.TP
\fB/\fR
Open filter prompt. Type to filter rows by mount name. \fBCtrl+W\fR deletes
the previous word; \fBCtrl+H\fR backspaces. \fBEnter\fR commits, \fBEsc\fR
cancels.

.SS Display
.TP
\fBb\fR
Cycle bar style (gradient → solid → thin → ascii).
.TP
\fBc\fR
Cycle color palette.
.TP
\fBu\fR
Toggle used/total display vs percent-only.
.TP
\fBa\fR
Toggle all mounts vs local-only (HDD/SSD).
.TP
\fBm\fR
Toggle compact mount names vs full paths.

.SS Drill-down + actions
.TP
\fBEnter\fR
Drill into the focused mount: spawn a background scan, populate a
per-directory size view.
.TP
\fBBkspc\fR / \fBh\fR
Drill up one level.
.TP
\fBy\fR
Copy the focused mount path or drill path to the system clipboard
(pbcopy / wl-copy / xclip / xsel).
.TP
\fBp\fR
Pause auto-refresh.

.SS Themes + help
.TP
\fBC\fR
Open the theme editor: adjust 6 palette colors interactively, name it, and
save into the config file. Press \fBEsc\fR to revert.
.TP
\fBT\fR
Open the theme chooser (saved themes + built-ins).
.TP
\fB?\fR / \fBh\fR
Open the help overlay.
.TP
\fBq\fR, \fBEsc\fR (top-level)
Quit. The runtime restores the cooked terminal mode.

.SH 4. CONFIG FILE
.B ~/.storageshower.conf
is TOML. Example:
.RS 4
.nf
sort = "size"           # name | pct | size
reverse = false
local_only = false
no_virtual = false
bar_style = "gradient"  # gradient | solid | thin | ascii
color = "default"
units = "human"         # human | gib | mib | bytes
compact_mount = false
warn_pct = 70
crit_pct = 90
refresh_secs = 1

[[themes]]
name = "neon"
colors = ["#05d9e8", "#ff2a6d", "#d300c5", "#39ff14", "#ff073a", "#0d0d1a"]
.fi
.RE
.PP
CLI flags override config keys; per-key precedence is documented in
.BR storageshower (1).

.SH 5. COLOR THEMES
.B storageshower
ships with ~12 cyberpunk-tuned palettes. Run
.B storageshower --list-colors
to enumerate them. To make your own:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
Open the theme editor with \fBC\fR, tune 6 colors interactively, name it.
.IP \(bu 2
Or hand-edit a
.B [[themes]]
block in the config (see \fB4. CONFIG FILE\fR above).
.IP \(bu 2
Switch with
.B --theme NAME
or with the \fBT\fR overlay at runtime.
.RE
.PP
.B --export-theme
prints the current palette as a ready-to-paste TOML block.

.SH 6. DRILL-DOWN
Pressing \fBEnter\fR on a mount row launches a background thread that
walks the mount, accumulating per-direct-child sizes. While scanning the
status line shows the count + total so far; when the scan completes the
view switches to the drill page with sortable
.RB ( s )
and reversible
.RB ( r )
entries. \fBEnter\fR drills deeper; \fBh\fR /
.B Bkspc
drills back up.

.SH 7. ALERTS
A mount crossing
.B warn_pct
flashes the status line + sets the row color; a mount crossing
.B crit_pct
additionally bells the terminal once per crossing. The bell is suppressed
across rescans of the same mount until the percent drops back below warn
and then re-crosses.

.SH 8. FILES & ENV
.TP
.RB \(aq ~/.storageshower.conf \(aq
Default config file. Use
.B --config PATH
to point at an alternate.
.TP
.B SS_NO_COLOR
If set, suppress ANSI color in the TUI (degrade to monochrome).
.TP
.B CLIPBOARD_CMD
Override the auto-detected clipboard tool.

.SH 9. EXIT CODES & EXAMPLES
.TP
.B 0
Clean quit via \fBq\fR / \fBEsc\fR.
.TP
.B 1
Argument-parse error (bad
.BR \-s ,
.BR \-b ,
or
.B \-u
value).
.TP
.B 2
TTY can't be put into raw mode (typically: stdin not a terminal).
.PP
Example invocations are in
.BR storageshower (1).

.SH 10. SEE ALSO
.BR storageshower (1),
.BR ncdu (1),
.BR du (1),
.BR df (1),
.BR sysinfo (5),
.BR iftoprs (1),
.BR iftoprsall (1),
.BR lsofrs (1),
.BR lsofrsall (1)
